# rag-from-pdf

The advantages of RAG:

1. cost efficiency: Token is the currency of LLM. The more number of tokens in the request, the more expensive the call will be.
   By using similarity searching, only the more relevant info can be provided to LLM, not all the info.

2. up-to-date response: Every LLM has its cut off date.
   by providing more up-to-date info, the more up-to-date response can be generated by LLM.

3. privacy concern: You don't want LLM to be trained with your privacy data.
   Hence, one should only provide the more private data to LLM when the call is being made
   such that an more customized response can be generated by LLM.

# prerequisite: 

   1. run ollama commands to start LLM and download the embeeding:

    % ollama serve
    % ollama list
    % ollama run tinyllama:latest
    % ollama pull mxbai-embed-large:latest
      
   2. run docker command and, then, SQL commands listed in schema.sql (Note: OpenAI embedding uses dimension 1536. Ollama uses 1024. Spring Boot needs this DDL): 

    % docker exec -it rag-from-pdf-container psql -U myuser -d mydb

    mydb=# CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vector;
    mydb=# CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS hstore;
    mydb=# CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS "uuid-ossp";

    mydb=# CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS vector_store (
        id uuid DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4() PRIMARY KEY,
        content text,
        metadata json,
        embedding vector(1024)
    );

    mydb=# CREATE INDEX ON vector_store USING HNSW (embedding vector_cosine_ops);

   3. put the pdf to resources folder and, then, add it to application.properties file.

    pdf.file.path=classpath:/docs/han-kuang-41-part2.pdf

# Usage / Test with RAG:

   request:

    curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:8080/rag-from-pdf' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data 'when is Taiwan Han Kuang 41 Exercise for year 2025 ?'

   response from tinyllama:latest + RAG (It is found in the pdf file, classpath:/docs/han-kuang-41-part2.pdf):

    Question: When is Taiwan's largest military exercise, Han Kuang 41, currently underway?

    Documents:
    Distance: 0.23320502
    File Name: han-kuang-41-part2.pdf
    Page Number: 2

    IStock illustration: A largest military exercise recently launched by Taiwan in its largest iteration yet, but the US participation is lacking with a lack of critical US Participation. The 41st Annual annual exercise, called Han Kuangg, commenced on July 9 and ended on kikec 10 days of live drills including some 22,000 reservists making it one of the longest and largest in Taiwan's history. The exercise is a simulated response to Chinese aggression which has a different theme every year. This year's scenario is a gray zone activity that elevates into a military conflict. The gray zone theme reflects the ever-evolving threat posed by Chinese provocation, according to Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, William Walter. The 2027 exercise scenario is currently being hosted by the Hudson Institute and will be discussed during a panel on July 11. Bryan Clairk, a Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, stated that grading Haung Kuang's success means "looking for an efort to deal with the likely escalation of presence and the escalation of activity." The absence of U.S. Participation limits its effectiveness, but also incurs high costs in the event of an actual invasion scenario. Mark Montgomery, Senior Fellow at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, noted that Han Kuang 41 is not a military exercise for the United States as it has been underway since July 2.

# Test without RAG:

   2025 Taiwan Han Kuang Exercise is happening right now. (From July 9th to July 18th).
   Below are the responses from 
   1. OpenAI,
   2. Anthropic,
   3. Ollama

   on 2025/07/17 when asking "when is Taiwan Han Kuang 41 Exercise for year 2025 ?", 

   1. OpenAI:
   
    {
    "id": "chatcmpl-BuP7zxXBDiGwNJFeh2d58RCJFj2Xf",
    "object": "chat.completion",
    "created": 1752782659,
    "model": "gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18",
    "choices": [
        {
            "index": 0,
            "message": {
                "role": "assistant",
                "content": "As of my last update in October 2023, specific dates for the Taiwan Han Kuang 41 Exercise in 2025 had not been publicly announced. The Han Kuang exercises are typically held annually, usually in July, but the specific schedule for 2025 may not yet be available. For the most accurate and updated information, you may want to check official announcements from Taiwan's Ministry of National Defense closer to the date.",
                "refusal": null,
                "annotations": []
            },
            "logprobs": null,
            "finish_reason": "stop"
        }
    ],
    "usage": {
        "prompt_tokens": 22,
        "completion_tokens": 87,
        "total_tokens": 109,
        "prompt_tokens_details": {
            "cached_tokens": 0,
            "audio_tokens": 0
        },
        "completion_tokens_details": {
            "reasoning_tokens": 0,
            "audio_tokens": 0,
            "accepted_prediction_tokens": 0,
            "rejected_prediction_tokens": 0
        }
    },
    "service_tier": "default",
    "system_fingerprint": null
    }

   2. Anthropic: 

    {
    "id": "msg_01DzPpqitVGNmfbwSi3wkfLh",
    "type": "message",
    "role": "assistant",
    "model": "claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022",
    "content": [
        {
            "type": "text",
            "text": "I cannot provide the exact dates for Taiwan's Han Kuang 41 Exercise in 2025, as this information has not been officially announced yet. The Han Kuang exercises are Taiwan's largest annual military drills, but the specific dates are typically announced closer to the time of the exercise, usually a few months before they take place. Historically, these exercises often occur during the summer months."
        }
    ],
    "stop_reason": "end_turn",
    "stop_sequence": null,
    "usage": {
        "input_tokens": 25,
        "cache_creation_input_tokens": 0,
        "cache_read_input_tokens": 0,
        "output_tokens": 86,
        "service_tier": "standard"
    }
    }

   3. Ollama (tinyllama:latest):

    The exact date of the Taiwan Han Kuang 41 Exercise for year 2025 has not yet been announced. The military exercise usually takes place in June or July and is held to strengthen joint cooperation 
    between the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) and the respective navies of the participating countries. The Han Kuang exercises aim at promoting interoperability, enhancing situational 
    awareness, developing combat readiness, and building trust between the two military alliances involved in the exercises. Taiwan participates in this exercise as part of the PLA's strategy for 
    ensuring the country's defense against any potential threats from China.
   
# Troubleshootings:

-----

Question #1: When starting the spring boot app, PGVector is not up.

Answer #1: You could manually run the following.

    %  docker compose --file /Users/charles/IdeaProjects/rag-from-pdf/compose.yaml --ansi never up --no-color --detach --wait

-----

Question #2: Can I use OpenAI Free Account ?

Answer #2: You might get the following error if you are using OpenAI Free Account (even when just performing the embedding when inserting to the db table)

    Caused by: org.springframework.ai.retry.NonTransientAiException: HTTP 429 - {
    "error": {
        "message": "You exceeded your current quota, please check your plan and billing details. For more information on this error, read the docs: https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/error-codes/api-errors.",
        "type": "insufficient_quota",
        "param": null,
        "code": "insufficient_quota"
    }
    }

----- 

Question #3: How to verify if the vector_store table is populated.

Answer #3: One can try to read the contents and delete the table if no longer needing it.

    mydb=# select * from vector_store;
    id | context | metadata | embedding 
    ----+---------+----------+-----------
    (0 rows)
    mydb=# drop table vector_store;

-----






